CI updates phase 2 (#3806)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/ci-jobs.md

---
title: "Continuous integration jobs in dbt Cloud"
sidebar_label: "CI jobs"
description: "Learn how to create and set up CI checks to test code changes before deploying to production."
---

You can set up [continuous integration](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration) (CI) jobs to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository. By running and testing only _modified_ models, dbt Cloud ensures these jobs are as efficient and resource conscientious as possible on your data platform.

:::tip Join our beta 

> dbt Labs is currently running a beta that provides improved UI updates for setting up CI jobs. For docs, refer to [Set up CI jobs (Beta version)](/docs/deploy/ci-jobs?version=beta#set-up-ci-jobs) on this page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt Labs is currently running a beta that provides improved UI updates for setting up CI jobs. For docs, refer to [Set up CI jobs (beta version)](/docs/deploy/ci-jobs?version=beta#set-up-ci-jobs) on this page.
```

Author: i would agree with you but matching UI label on the tab

## Set up CI jobs

dbt Labs recommends that you create your Slim CI job in a dedicated dbt Cloud [deployment environment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#create-a-deployment-environment) that's connected to a staging database. Having a separate environment dedicated for CI will provide better isolation between your temporary CI schemas builds and your production data builds. Additionally, sometimes teams need their Slim CI jobs to be triggered when a PR is made to a branch other than main. If your team maintains a staging branch in your release process, having a separate environment will allow you to set a [custom branch](/faqs/environments/custom-branch-settings), and accordingly the CI job in that dedicated environment will be triggered only when PRs are made to the specified, custom branch.

:::tip Join our beta 

dbt Labs is currently running a beta that provides improved UI updates for setting up CI jobs. For docs on this, click on the **Beta version** tab below.

If you're interested in joining our beta, please [contact us](mailto:support@getdbt.com).

> 

Author: is the wording ok for the beta callout?

Reviewer 2: yep!

Reviewer 2: @nghi-ly - actually, let's point to this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2Szy3QYrDPSpJiqqhgl7xa6eo1VQoLm35Xg81R64IefBgoQ/viewform) instead

Reviewer 2: can we replace all the call to action to support@getdbt.com to this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2Szy3QYrDPSpJiqqhgl7xa6eo1VQoLm35Xg81R64IefBgoQ/viewform) instead? It's mentioned in a few places

    - If you’re using GitLab, you must use a paid or self-hosted account which includes support for GitLab webhooks.
    - If you previously configured your dbt project by providing a generic git URL that clones using SSH, you must reconfigure the project to connect through dbt Cloud's native integration.

## Set up CI jobs {#set-up-ci-jobs}

> dbt Labs recommends that you create your CI job in a dedicated dbt Cloud [deployment environment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#create-a-deployment-environment) that's connected to a staging database. Having a separate environment dedicated for CI will provide better isolation between your temporary CI schemas builds and your production data builds. Additionally, sometimes teams need their CI jobs to be triggered when a PR is made to a branch other than main. If your team maintains a staging branch in your release process, having a separate environment will allow you to set a [custom branch](/faqs/environments/custom-branch-settings) and, accordingly, the CI job in that dedicated environment will be triggered only when PRs are made to the specified custom branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt Labs recommends that you create your CI job in a dedicated dbt Cloud [deployment environment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#create-a-deployment-environment) that's connected to a staging database. Having a separate environment dedicated for CI will provide better isolation between your temporary CI schema builds and your production data builds. Additionally, sometimes teams need their CI jobs to be triggered when a PR is made to a branch other than main. If your team maintains a staging branch as part of your release process, having a separate environment will allow you to set a [custom branch](/faqs/environments/custom-branch-settings) and, accordingly, the CI job in that dedicated environment will be triggered only when PRs are made to the specified custom branch.
```

> dbt Labs recommends that you create your CI job in a dedicated dbt Cloud [deployment environment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#create-a-deployment-environment) that's connected to a staging database. Having a separate environment dedicated for CI will provide better isolation between your temporary CI schemas builds and your production data builds. Additionally, sometimes teams need their CI jobs to be triggered when a PR is made to a branch other than main. If your team maintains a staging branch in your release process, having a separate environment will allow you to set a [custom branch](/faqs/environments/custom-branch-settings) and, accordingly, the CI job in that dedicated environment will be triggered only when PRs are made to the specified custom branch.

Reviewer 2: @joellabes created a great best practices guide -- PR [here](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/3722). Joel is there a way to call out in your doc that defer to environment is in beta. and then you can merge, and we can link it here in the docs?

    - For the option **Commands**, enter `dbt build --select state:modified+` in the field. This informs dbt Cloud to build only new or changed models and their downstream dependents. Importantly, state comparison can only happen when there is a deferred job selected to compare state to.

3. In the **Triggers** section, choose the **Continuous Integration** (CI) tab. Then, enable the **Run on Pull Requests** option. This configures pull requests and new commits to be a trigger for the CI job.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="beta" label="Beta version">

To make CI job creation easier, many options on the **CI job** page are set to default values that dbt Labs recommends that you use. If you don't want to use the defaults, you can change them.

1. On your deployment environment page, click **Create Job** > **Continuous Integration Job** to create a new CI job. 

2. Options in the **Job Description** section:
    - **Job Name** &mdash; Specify the name for this CI job.
    - **Environment** &mdash; By default, it’s set to the environment you created the CI job from.

>     - **Triggered by pull requests** &mdash; By default, it’s enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Triggered by pull requests** &mdash; By default, it’s enabled. Every time a developer opens up a pull request or pushes a commit to an existing pull request, this job will get triggered to run.
```

3. Options in the **Execution Settings** section:

>     - **Commands** &mdash; By default, it includes the `dbt build --select state:modified+` command. This informs dbt Cloud to build only new or changed models and their downstream dependents. Importantly, state comparison can only happen when there is a deferred job selected to compare state to. Click **Add command** to add more [commands](/docs/deploy/job-commands)  that you want to be invoked when this job runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Commands** &mdash; By default, it includes the `dbt build --select state:modified+` command. This informs dbt Cloud to build only new or changed models and their downstream dependents. Importantly, state comparison can only happen when there is a deferred environment selected to compare state to. Click **Add command** to add more [commands](/docs/deploy/job-commands)  that you want to be invoked when this job runs.
```

>     - **Compare changes against an environment (Deferral)** &mdash; By default, it’s set to the **Production** environment if you created one. This option allows dbt Cloud to check the state of the code in the PR against the code running in the deferred environment, so as to only check the modified code, instead of building the full table or the entire DAG.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Compare changes against an environment (Deferral)** &mdash; By default, it’s set to the **Production** environment if you created one. This option allows dbt Cloud to check the state of the code in the PR against the code running in the deferred environment, so as to only check the modified code, instead of building the full table or the entire DAG. 
    
Note -- Older versions of dbt Cloud only allowed users to defer to a specific job vs. an environment. Deferral to a job compares state against the project code that was run in the deferred job's last successful run. Deferral to an environment is more efficient, as dbt Cloud will compare against the project representation, stored in the manifest.json, of the last successful, deploy job run executed in the deferred environment. By considering _all_ deploy jobs that run in the deferred environment, dbt Cloud will pick up a more accurate, latest project representation state.
```

Reviewer 2: you might want to make this an info block bc it's a change from behavior that a lot of people use. We should add this info block too in the deploy jobs section.

Author: added info callout on this page and the job-settings page

>     - **Generate docs on run** &mdash; Enable this option if you want to [generate project docs](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) when this job runs. This option is disabled by default since doc generation testing isn't typically performed for every CI check.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Generate docs on run** &mdash; Enable this option if you want to [generate project docs](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) when this job runs. This option is disabled by default since most teams do not want to test doc generation on every CI check.
```

  <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/create-ci-job.png" width="90%" title="Example of CI Job page in dbt Cloud UI"/>

4. (optional) Options in the **Advanced Settings** section: 

>     - **Environment Variables** &mdash; Define [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) to customize the behavior of your project when this CI job runs. You can specify that a CI job is running in a _Staging_ or _CI_ environment by setting an environment variable and modifying your project code to behave differently, depending on the context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Environment Variables** &mdash; Define [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) to customize the behavior of your project when this CI job runs. You can specify that a CI job is running in a _Staging_ or _CI_ environment by setting an environment variable and modifying your project code to behave differently, depending on the context. It's common for teams to process only a subset of data for CI runs, using environment variables to branch logic in their dbt project code.
```

>     - **Target Name** &mdash; Define the [target name](/docs/build/custom-target-names) to correspond this CI job to the settings in your project. Similar to **Environment Variables**, this option lets you customize the behavior of the project. You can use this option to specify that a CI job is running in a _Staging_ or _CI_ environment by setting the target name and modifying your project code to behave differently, depending on the context. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Target Name** &mdash; Define the [target name](/docs/build/custom-target-names). Similar to **Environment Variables**, this option lets you customize the behavior of the project. You can use this option to specify that a CI job is running in a _Staging_ or _CI_ environment by setting the target name and modifying your project code to behave differently, depending on the context. 
```

>     - **Run Timeout** &mdash; Cancel this CI job if the run time exceeds the timeout value. You can use this option to help ensure that a CI check doesn't consume too many of your warehouse resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Run Timeout** &mdash; Cancel this CI job if the run time exceeds the timeout value. You can use this option to help ensure that a CI check doesn't consume too much of your warehouse resources.
```

Reviewer 2: resources aren't discrete and countable

>     - **dbt Version** &mdash; By default, it’s set to inherit the [dbt version](/docs/dbt-versions/core) from the environment. dbt Labs strongly recommends that you don't change the default setting as mismatched versions can result in unexpected behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **dbt Version** &mdash; By default, it’s set to inherit the [dbt version](/docs/dbt-versions/core) from the environment. dbt Labs strongly recommends that you don't change the default setting by selecting a specific dbt version on the job setting. This option to change the version at the job level is useful only when upgrading a project to the next dbt version, but otherwise, mismatched versions between the environment and job can lead to confusing behavior.
```

    - **Run Timeout** &mdash; Cancel this CI job if the run time exceeds the timeout value. You can use this option to help ensure that a CI check doesn't consume too much of your warehouse resources.
    - **dbt Version** &mdash; By default, it’s set to inherit the [dbt version](/docs/dbt-versions/core) from the environment. dbt Labs strongly recommends that you don't change the default setting. This option to change the version at the job level is useful only when you upgrade a project to the next dbt version; otherwise, mismatched versions between the environment and job can lead to confusing behavior.
    - **Threads** &mdash; By default, it’s set to 4 [threads](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/connection-profiles#understanding-threads). Increase the thread count to increase model execution concurrency.

>     - **Run source freshness** &mdash; Enable this option to invoke the `dbt source freshness` command before running this CI job. Refer to [Source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) for more details.

Reviewer: The rest of these are title case - should this be too?
```suggestion
    - **Run Source Freshness** &mdash; Enable this option to invoke the `dbt source freshness` command before running this CI job. Refer to [Source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) for more details.
```

Author: for all options, i'm matching what the UI label has in dbt Cloud. it's not title case for this option

3. In the **Triggers** section, choose the **Continuous Integration** (CI) tab. Then, enable the **Run on Pull Requests** option. This configures pull requests and new commits to be a trigger for the Slim CI job.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="beta" label="Beta version">

> To make CI job creation easier, many options on the **CI job** page are set to default values that dbt Labs recommends that you use. You can change some of these defaults and there are some that you can’t (which are greyed out).

Author: need to follow up on "greyed out" UX

Reviewer 3: Which options are these?

Also, might be useful to differentiate between disabled options (user can't edit) and read-only options (only uneditable if user doesn't have access or is not in edit mode).

Author: hey @thorn14 : all options are listed and described in their relative sections in the UI in the steps immediately below that intro section

Reviewer 2: I don think any are "grayed" out? If we do keep the language, can we spell it the american way?

Author: with the latest UI looks like all options can be changed. updated wording to align.

2. Options in the **Job Description** section:
    - **Job Name** &mdash; Specify the name for this CI job.
    - **Environment** &mdash; By default, it’s set to the environment you created the CI job from.
    - **Triggered by pull requests** &mdash; By default, it’s enabled.

3. Options in the **Execution Settings** section:
    - **Compare changes against an environment (Deferral)** &mdash; By default, it’s set to the **Production** environment if you created one. This option allows dbt Cloud to check the state of the code in the PR against the code running in the deferred environment, so as to only check the modified code, instead of building the full table or the entire DAG.
    - **Commands** &mdash; By default, it includes the `dbt build --select state:modified+` command. This informs dbt Cloud to build only new or changed models and their downstream dependents. Importantly, state comparison can only happen when there is a deferred job selected to compare state to. Click **Add command** to add more [commands](/docs/deploy/job-commands)  that you want to be invoked when this job runs.

>     - **Generate docs on run** &mdash; Enable this option if you want to [generate project docs](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) when this job runs. This option is disabled by default since doc generation testing isn't typically performed for every CI check.

Author: the feedback on the last sentence used "users", which is third person. as a best practice in tech writing, it's preferred to use second person (you/your) so it's like we're speaking to the reader (instead of _about_ them).  also, second person lets us to use an imperative voice like Do this/Do that. 

so, i updated the wording a bit; happy to update if i didn't capture your intention accurately

Reviewer 2: sounds good to me!

>     - **Add API trigger** &mdash; Set up an [API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/overview) trigger to run this CI job. In the POST request method, you must also include the pull request ID and `get_sha` value.

Author: waiting to hear back on exact field names here for PR ID and get_sha

Reviewer 2: @knartovich will you share w/ Ly what the exact names of the fields are that are needed when you trigger a CI job via API? We need PR_ID and git_sha?

@nghi-ly looks like a typo w/ get_sha. But let's wait for Katia to share

Reviewer 4: you can trigger your CI run without either of those fields, but if you want your run to post a status back to your PR/MR you need both. they are called `github_pull_request_id` & `git_sha`. looks like this functionality has not been implemented for GL or ADO yet

Reviewer 2: okay great

"In the POST request method, you must also include the` github_pull_request_id` and `git_sha` if you would like to post the status of the check back to the git provider and have set up native integration set up through dbt Cloud"

Reviewer 2: @knartovich I thought the post back requires a native integration w/ dbt Cloud and the git provider set up. I thought the PR ID and git sha were required so that we can build in temp schemas + auto-cancel stale runs, which we handle w/ our scheduler

Reviewer 4: you are correct -- a native integration is required. but we only post back if the run trigger is associated with a pull request, & git SHA is required

PR ID is need for auto-cancellation; git SHA is not

as far as i can tell, temporary schema naming/dropping is done through webhooks. the user can pass `schema_override` if they wish, but we don't automatically create a temp schema until the CI run is triggered by a webhook

Reviewer 2: I send a message in Slack. 

I'd also love for us to call this `pull_request_id` instead of `github_pull_request_id` bc we support multiple git providers.

Author: with the latest UI, looks like this option is removed. updated wording to align

4. (optional) Options in the **Advanced Settings** section: 

>     - **Environment Variables** &mdash; Define [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) to customize the behavior of your project when this CI job runs. You can specify that a CI job is running in a _Staging_ or _CI_ environment by setting an environment variable and modifying your project code to behave differently, depending on the context.

Author: i did the same thing here re: third person vs second person

Reviewer 2: sounds good!

>     - **Target Name** &mdash; Define the [target name](/docs/build/custom-target-names) to correspond this CI job to the settings in your project. Similar to **Environment Variables**, this option lets you customize the behavior of the project. You can use this option to specify that a CI job is running in a _Staging_ or _CI_ environment by setting the target name and modifying your project code to behave differently, depending on the context. 

Author: updated the feedback comment for second person

>     - **Run Timeout** &mdash; Cancel this CI job if the run time exceeds the timeout value. You can use this option to help ensure that a CI check doesn't consume too many of your warehouse resources.

Author: same here
